# 2024 June 6 - Meeting notes

## Attendees

- TBD

## Meeting recording

Watch the YouTube recording of the meeting on the Salt Extensions playlist:
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL9svBjLDUl_-gyXj2lDYomI8keXtbMqUl

## Agenda and notes

- **Welcome any newcomers**
- Question for the group: for the summer time when people tend to go on a lot of vacations, should we drop to a  once a month cadence?
- Today's agenda is: Alyssa is developing some serious concerns about the Salt Extensions project that she would like to discuss with this working group. Do we still consider this project to be a good idea? She'll lay out her concerns surrounding:
  - Risk
  - Installation
  - Documentation and discovery
  - Can maintainership scale


## Next steps

- Next meeting is June 20.

## Notable links

- https://github.com/orgs/salt-extensions/projects/5
- https://github.com/saltstack/community
- https://extensions.saltproject.io/
- https://github.com/saltstack/salt/pull/65971
- https://github.com/saltstack/great-module-migration
- https://github.com/orgs/salt-extensions/repositories
- https://github.com/saltstack/community/tree/master/working_groups
- https://salt.tips/whats-new-in-salt-chlorine/
